CHARLES DARWIN ONCE TOOK
A RIDE ON ONE OF THESE
AND IT WAS SOMETHING
ABOUT THEIR SHELLS
THAT GAVE HIM THE FIRST HINT
THAT LIVING CREATURES
CHANGE OVER TIME.
( crunching )
THE GIANT TORTOISES
OF THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS
ARE AMONG THE MANY
UNIQUE ANIMALS HERE...
OKAY, I'M SORRY,
I'M SORRY.
Alda:
THAT GOT DARWIN TO THINKING
ABOUT HOW NEW SPECIES COME
INTO BEING.
TODAY THE ISLANDS' CREATURES
STILL AMAZE THEIR VISITORS
AND PROVIDE INSIGHTS
INTO HOW EVOLUTION WORKS.
I HAVE GOOD
BEGINNER'S LUCK.
I'M ALAN ALDA.
JOIN ME AND THE CREATURES
THAT INSPIRED DARWIN
AS WE VOYAGE TO THE GALAPAGOS.
[Captioning sponsored
by GTE CORPORATION]
BROUGHT TO YOU BY A COMPANY
§§§
THESE ELEMENTS OF COMMUNICATION
ARE BROUGHT TO YOU BY VERIZON.
CORPORATE SPONSOR OF
SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN FRONTIERS.
IN 1831, AT THE AGE OF 22
CHARLES DARWIN SET OFF
ON A VOYAGE
THAT WOULD CHANGE NOT ONLY
HIS LIFE BUT OURS AS WELL.
THE NATURALIST ON A
BRITISH NAVAL SHIP, THE BEAGLE
DARWIN TRAVELED AROUND
SOUTH AMERICA AND BEYOND.
WHAT HE SAW ON AN
ISOLATED GROUP OF ISLANDS
OUT HERE IN THE PACIFIC
BEGAN AN INTELLECTUAL VOYAGE
THAT WOULD LAST SOME 20 YEARS
AND WOULD CULMINATE IN THE THEN
SHOCKING IDEA THAT LIVING THINGS
ARE NOT DESIGNED ACCORDING
TO AN UNCHANGEABLE PLAN
BUT INSTEAD ARE SHAPED
BY THE WORLD AROUND THEM.
WHEN THE BEAGLE FINALLY
ANCHORED HERE IN THE GALAPAGOS
IN SEPTEMBER OF 1835
DARWIN WAS VERY EXCITED
ABOUT COMING HERE.
HE WAS REALLY FASCINATED
WITH THE GEOLOGY OF THE PLACE
PARTICULARLY THE VOLCANIC
ORIGINS OF THESE ISLANDS.
BUT WHEN HE ACTUALLY SET FOOT
ON THE SHORE
HE WAS VERY DISAPPOINTED
IN THIS PLACE.
IN FACT, THIS IS WHAT HE WROTE:
"NOTHING COULD BE LESS INVITING
THAN THE FIRST APPEARANCE.
"A BROKEN FIELD
OF BLACK, BASALTIC LAVA
"IS EVERYWHERE COVERED
BY A STUNTED BRUSHWOOD
"WHICH SHOWS LITTLE
SIGNS OF LIFE.
"THE DRY AND PARCHED SURFACE
"HAVING BEEN HEATED
BY THE NOONDAY SUN
"GAVE THE AIR A CLOSE
AND SULTRY FEELING
LIKE THAT FROM A STOVE."
600 MILES OFF
THE SOUTH AMERICAN COAST
THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS ARE
ACTUALLY THE TIPS OF VOLCANOES
THAT HAVE PUSHED THEIR WAY
ABOVE THE OCEAN SURFACE.
THE OLDEST ISLANDS WERE FORMED
SOME TWO TO
THREE MILLION YEARS AGO.
THE YOUNGEST,
INCLUDING THE BIGGEST, ISABELA
ARE A FEW HUNDRED
THOUSAND YEARS OLD
WITH VOLCANOES THAT STILL ERUPT.
MY VISIT TO THE GALAPAGOS
IS TO TAKE ME
TO OVER HALF THE DOZEN
OR SO MAJOR ISLANDS
INCLUDING ONE WHOSE VOLCANIC
ORIGINS ARE ONLY TOO APPARENT.
Alda:
THESE ROCKS LOOK
LIKE THEY'RE LAID OUT
IN A CIRCLE.
Woman:
YEAH, THIS IS
DEVIL'S CROWN.
IT'S AN OLD
ERODED CRATER
THAT'S VERY SHALLOW HERE
IN THE MIDDLE.
WE'RE IN THE
MIDDLE OF A CRATER--
A VOLCANIC CRATER?
YEAH, IT'S NOT GOING
TO ERUPT, THOUGH
DON'T WORRY.
HOW DO YOU KNOW?
IT'S OLD--
IT'S ALL ERODED.
I'VE SEEN A LOT OF
OLD THINGS ERUPT--
ME!
I'M REALLY
SURPRISED AT HOW
LUSH EVERYTHING IS.
THAT'S THE EL NIÑO?
Alda:
MY GUIDE ON THE TRIP
IS LYNN FOWLER
A BIOLOGIST WHO HAS SPENT
MUCH OF HER LIFE IN THE ISLANDS.
WHAT IS THIS
TRAIL HERE?
THAT'S A
LAND IGUANA TRAIL.
SO AT THE END OF
THIS TRAIL WE MIGHT
FIND AN IGUANA?
WE MIGHT FIND ONE--
LET'S SEE.
Alda:
AND HERE, AS IF WAITING
PATIENTLY FOR OUR ARRIVAL
IS A CREATURE THAT DARWIN WAS
NOT IMMEDIATELY IMPRESSED BY.
WHEN DARWIN FIRST SAW
THESE LAND IGUANAS
HE THOUGHT THEY LOOKED
SLOW AND STUPID.
IN FACT, THERE'S A FUNNY STORY
HE TELLS ABOUT THAT.
DARWIN WAS WATCHING
A LAND IGUANA BURROW
MAKING A HOLE
SOMEWHAT LIKE THIS ONE
WITH JUST HIS TAIL STICKING OUT.
AND DARWIN GAVE
THE TAIL A LITTLE YANK
AND THE IGUANA BACKED OUT
OF THE HOLE AND TURNED AROUND
AND LOOKED AT HIM, AS IF TO SAY,
"WHAT DID YOU DO THAT FOR?"
WHAT DARWIN INTERPRETED
AS STUPIDITY
IN THE ISLANDS' LAND IGUANAS
IS IN FACT AN EXTRAORDINARY
INDIFFERENCE TO HUMANS
THAT'S SHARED BY ALL
THE GALAPAGOS ANIMAL LIFE
AND THAT DARWIN REPEATEDLY NOTED
IN HIS ACCOUNT OF HIS VOYAGE.
HE TOOK ADVANTAGE OF IT
IN HIS SEVERAL ENCOUNTERS
WITH THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS'
MOST FAMOUS RESIDENTS
THE GIANT TORTOISES:
"AS I WAS WALKING ALONG,
I MET TWO LARGE TORTOISES
"EACH OF WHICH MUST HAVE WEIGHED
AT LEAST 200 POUNDS.
"THESE HUGE REPTILES
SEEMED TO MY FANCY
"LIKE SOME ANTEDILUVIAN ANIMALS.
"I WAS ALWAYS AMUSED
WHEN OVERTAKING
"ONE OF THESE GREAT MONSTERS
AS IT WAS QUIETLY PACING ALONG
"TO SEE HOW SUDDENLY,
THE INSTANT I PASSED
"IT WOULD DRAW IN ITS HEAD AND
LEGS, AND UTTERING A DEEP HISS
FALL TO THE GROUND WITH A
HEAVY SOUND, AS IF STRUCK DEAD."
( tortoise hisses loudly )
"I FREQUENTLY GOT
ON THEIR BACKS
"AND THEN GIVING A FEW RAPS ON
THE HINDER PART OF THEIR SHELLS
"THEY WOULD RISE UP
AND WALK AWAY
BUT I FOUND IT VERY DIFFICULT
TO KEEP MY BALANCE."
( crunching )
( giggling )
TODAY VISITORS TO THE GALAPAGOS
USUALLY PAY THEIR RESPECTS
TO THE HANDFUL OF GIANT
TORTOISES THAT ARE HOUSED
AT THE RESEARCH STATION HERE
NAMED FOR CHARLES DARWIN
ALTHOUGH GETTING TO FEED THEM
IS A PRIVILEGE RESERVED
FOR THE FOOLHARDY.
HELLO.
( chomp )
WHAT A LOOK
IN HIS EYE.
( in amazement ):
OY-OY-OY!
MY PROBLEM IS
I NOT ONLY SAW E.T.
I ALSO SAW JURASSIC PARK.
Alda:
IN DARWIN'S DAY,
THE GIANT TORTOISES
WERE STILL BEING HAULED AWAY
BY THE THOUSANDS
TO PROVIDE FRESH MEAT
FOR WHALING SHIPS.
THAT'S A LITTLE
TOO CLOSE TO
MY FINGERS--
YOU CAN HAVE IT.
Alda:
THE GOVERNOR
OF THE GALAPAGOS TOLD DARWIN
THAT HE COULD TELL
BY THE SHAPE OF ITS SHELL
WHICH ISLAND
A TORTOISE CAME FROM.
THIS SADDLE-BACKED TORTOISE,
FOR INSTANCE
COMES FROM
THE ISLAND OF ESPAÑOLA.
AT THE TIME,
DARWIN PAID LITTLE ATTENTION
TO THE GOVERNOR'S CLAIM
BUT IT WAS TO BE THE FOUNDATION
FOR EVERYTHING THAT FOLLOWED.
SOON HE SAW FOR HIMSELF
HOW CREATURES
COULD BE RECOGNIZABLY DIFFERENT
FROM ONE ISLAND TO THE NEXT.
THESE MOCKINGBIRDS,
LIKE THE SADDLE-BACKED TORTOISE
ARE FROM THE ISLAND OF ESPAÑOLA.
( chirping loudly )
Man:
THESE MOCKINGBIRDS
ARE HAVING A FLICK FIGHT.
THEY FLICK THEIR WINGS
AND THEIR TAIL BACK AND FORTH
AS A TERRITORIAL DISPLAY
BETWEEN TWO BIG GROUPS OF
MOCKINGBIRDS THAT ARE FAMILIES
AND THEY'RE DISPUTING
WHAT'S GOING ON
AT THE TERRITORIAL BOUNDARY.
SO THEY DO THIS
BIG DISPLAY SAYING, YOU KNOW
"IF YOU CROSS THIS BOUNDARY
"THIS IS WHAT'S GOING
TO HAPPEN TO YOU.
IT'S GOING TO BE BAD."
Alda:
DAVE ANDERSON IS ONE
OF THE FEW BIOLOGISTS
WITH PERMISSION TO COME
TO THE GALAPAGOS YEAR AFTER YEAR
TO PURSUE HIS RESEARCH.
THE RULES GOVERNING HIS VISITS
ARE STRICT
AND EVERYTHING HE BRINGS IN
MUST GO OUT.
MOCKINGBIRDS ARE
A CONSTANT PRESENCE
IN HIS CAMP ON ESPAÑOLA
AND THEY SEEM EAGER TO VOLUNTEER
FOR A SHOW-AND-TELL.
Anderson:
ON THIS ISLAND
THE MOCKINGBIRD SPECIES IS
LARGER THAN ON OTHER ISLANDS
AND ON THIS ISLAND
THE BEAK IS LONG AND CURVED.
THEY USE THAT
TO MOVE DIRT AROUND.
THEY DIG MORE ON THIS ISLAND
THAN ON OTHER ISLANDS.
ALSO THE BREAST FEATHERS
ARE WHITISH AND SPECKLED
AND SOME OF THE OTHER SPECIES
ARE MUCH CLEANER IN THE BREAST.
THE POINT IS THAT
NEARBY ISLANDS HAVE
VERY DIFFERENT-LOOKING BIRDS.
IT'S NO PROBLEM
FOR EVEN AN AMATEUR BIRDER
TO KNOW THE DIFFERENCE
BETWEEN SPECIES OF MOCKINGBIRDS.
Alda:
IN ADDITION TO
THE ESPAÑOLA MOCKINGBIRDS
TWO OTHER ISLANDS HAVE
THEIR OWN DISTINCT SPECIES.
THEN THERE'S A FOURTH SPECIES
COMMON ACROSS MOST OF
THE ISLANDS, INCLUDING HERE
ON THE NORTHEASTERNMOST
ISLAND, GENOVESA.
THEY ALL LOOK
A LITTLE DIFFERENT
DEPENDING ON THE ISLAND
THEY COME FROM?
YEAH, SO FOR EXAMPLE,
THOSE ESPAÑOLA BIRDS
HAD A LOT OF SPECKLING
ON THEIR BREASTS
AND THIS ONE REALLY DOESN'T.
THIS ONE'S GOT
A CLEAN, WHITE BREAST.
LOOKS CLEANER
ALL THE WAY AROUND.
THOSE ESPAÑOLA BIRDS LOOK
SORT OF RATTY AND DIRTY.
ARE YOU GOING
TO LET HIM GO?
YEAH... WE CAN TRY
HYPNOTIZING HIM.
OH-- CAN HE FLY
IF HE'S HYPNOTIZED?
HE'LL GO TO SLEEP.
Alda:
MOCKINGBIRDS JOINED
THE GIANT TORTOISES
ON DARWIN'S LIST OF CREATURES
THAT FOR SOME MYSTERIOUS REASON
WERE SLIGHTLY DIFFERENT
ON DIFFERENT ISLANDS.
I WILL NOW MAKE
THIS MOCKINGBIRD
WAKE UP.
( snaps fingers )
( laughs )
YOU DIDN'T EVEN GIVE HIM
A POST-HYPNOTIC SUGGESTION.
THAT WAS AMAZING.
DALE, DALE!
Alda:
DURING HIS FIVE WEEKS
IN THE GALAPAGOS
DARWIN VISITED ONLY FOUR
OF THE ISLANDS...
ISN'T THAT GREAT?
Alda:
YET HE MANAGED TO COLLECT
HUNDREDS OF SPECIMENS
OF BIRDS, ANIMALS AND PLANTS.
THIS WAS ONE
OF THE ISLANDS
DARWIN LANDED AT?
YEAH, THIS IS FLOREANA.
THIS WAS HIS SECOND STOP,
ACTUALLY, IN THE GALAPAGOS.
Alda:
BY NOW, DARWIN WAS BECOMING
INCREASINGLY EXCITED
BY THE NATURAL HISTORY
OF THE ISLANDS.
EVERYWHERE, HE WAS SEEING
WHAT HE CALLED
"ABORIGINAL CREATIONS"--
ANIMALS AND PLANTS
FOUND NOWHERE ELSE--
WHAT BIOLOGISTS NOW CALL
"ENDEMIC SPECIES."
ON FLOREANA ALONE,
HE IDENTIFIED 21 ENDEMIC PLANTS.
SO, WHAT PLANTS
HERE ARE ENDEMIC
TO THIS ISLAND?
WELL, HERE WE'VE
GOT LECOCARPUS--
THIS LITTLE YELLOW DAISY--
AND THIS ONE HERE WITH THE HAIRY
LEAVES, THIS IS SCALESIA VELOSA.
Alda:
AND ONCE AGAIN, DARWIN NOTICED
THAT DIFFERENT ISLANDS HAD
THEIR OWN UNIQUE VERSIONS
INCLUDING A SPECIES OF SCALESIA
THAT GROWS INTO A 30-FOOT TREE.
BUT THERE WAS SOMETHING ELSE
BESIDES THE UNIQUENESS
OF THE PLANTS AND ANIMALS HERE.
THEY SEEMED TO DARWIN
TO BEAR A STRIKING RESEMBLANCE
TO THOSE HE'D JUST SEEN
IN SOUTH AMERICA.
AND A TREMENDOUS IDEA
BEGAN TO GERMINATE:
PERHAPS HERE IN THE GALAPAGOS
HE WAS CLOSE TO NOTHING LESS
THAN THE ORIGIN OF SPECIES.
"THE NATURAL HISTORY
OF THESE ISLANDS
"IS EMINENTLY CURIOUS
AND WELL DESERVES ATTENTION.
"MOST OF THE ORGANIC PRODUCTIONS
"ARE ABORIGINAL CREATIONS
FOUND NOWHERE ELSE.
"THERE IS EVEN A DIFFERENCE
"BETWEEN THE INHABITANTS
OF THE DIFFERENT ISLANDS.
"THE ARCHIPELAGO IS
A LITTLE WORLD WITHIN ITSELF
"OR RATHER A SATELLITE
ATTACHED TO AMERICA
"WHENCE IT HAS DERIVED
A FEW STRAY COLONISTS.
"HENCE, BOTH IN SPACE AND TIME
"WE SEEM TO BE BROUGHT SOMEWHAT
NEAR TO THAT GREAT FACT
"THAT MYSTERY OF MYSTERIES--
THE FIRST APPEARANCE
OF NEW BEINGS ON THIS EARTH."
IT WOULD BE TWO MORE YEARS--
THE BEAGLE'S VOYAGE
FINALLY OVER-- BEFORE
THE "MYSTERY OF MYSTERIES"
BEGAN TO RESOLVE ITSELF
IN HIS MIND.
IT HAPPENED AS HE WAS PUZZLING
OVER ANOTHER GROUP OF CREATURES
THAT WHILE HE WAS HERE, HE
HADN'T PAID MUCH ATTENTION TO--
THE LITTLE BIRDS
NOW CALLED "DARWIN'S FINCHES."
AND THIS GOES DOWN, RIGHT?
Anderson:
YEP.
Alda:
WE'RE SETTING UP A MIST NET
TO CATCH ONE
OF THE GROUP OF BIRDS
THAT HAS BECOME LITERALLY
SYNONYMOUS WITH DARWIN
AND HIS THEORY OF EVOLUTION.
THIS NEEDS TO BE
LOOSE LIKE THIS?
YEAH, WHAT
HAPPENS IS
THE BIRD FLIES IN
AND DOESN'T SEE IT
AND SO IT CARRIES THE NET
OUT WITH IT WITH ITS MOMENTUM
AND THEN SAGS DOWN, HANGING
LIKE THIS IN A LITTLE BAG.
Both:
PSSH, PSSH, PSSH.
CAN THEY HEAR THAT?
YOU CAN ALSO
GO LIKE THIS--
( making squeaking noise )
DO YOU DO THAT WHEN
YOU'VE BEEN HERE TOO LONG?
BIRDERS ACT LIKE
THEY KNOW WHAT
THEY'RE DOING
AND THEY MAKE THESE
LITTLE SQUEAKY SOUNDS
AND THEY ALL PRETEND LIKE
IT MAKES A DIFFERENCE.
I DON'T KNOW WHETHER
IT DOES OR NOT.
Both:
PSSH, PSSH, PSSH.
YOU GOT ONE,
YOU GOT ONE!
IT'S A SHARP-BEAKED
GROUND FINCH.
Alda:
OUR BIZARRE CALLS
HAVE NETTED US A BIRD
FROM ONE OF THE 13 DIFFERENT
SPECIES OF FINCHES
IN THE GALAPAGOS-- BIRDS THAT
ARE TODAY KNOWN COLLECTIVELY
AS "DARWIN'S FINCHES."
NOW, WHAT IS
THIS AGAIN?
THIS IS THE
SHARP-BEAKED
GROUND FINCH.
THIS IS THE SMALLEST
GROUND FINCH ON
THIS ISLAND.
IT'S GOT A POINTY
LITTLE BEAK THAT'S
GREAT FOR GRASS SEEDS.
Alda
TODAY DARWIN'S FINCHES
ARE IN ALL THE TEXTBOOKS
AS THE CLASSIC EXAMPLE
OF HOW LIVING THINGS
ADAPT TO THEIR ENVIRONMENT.
EACH OF THE 13 SPECIES IN THE
GALAPAGOS HAS A DIFFERENT BEAK
THAT SUITS ITS LIFESTYLE--
FROM FEEDING OFF CACTUS FLOWERS
TO USING TWIGS TO DIG OUT
INSECTS FROM THE BARK OF TREES.
A GROUP OF SPECIES
KNOWN AS GROUND FINCHES
ARE THE MOST COMMON.
THIS IS THE LARGE GROUND FINCH,
WITH A THICK, HEAVY BEAK
PERFECT FOR CRACKING OPEN
LARGE TOUGH SEEDS.
THE SHARP-BEAKED
GROUND FINCH BY CONTRAST
EATS MAINLY SMALL SEEDS.
Anderson:
IF YOU GAVE THIS GUY
A GRAM OF SMALL SEEDS TO EAT
IT WOULD GET DONE A LOT FASTER
THAN WITH THIS GUY.
Alda:
BECAUSE HE'S GOT TOO
MUCH BEAK IN THE WAY?
HE'S GOT TOO MUCH
EQUIPMENT THERE, YEAH.
IT'S TOO BIG, IT'S TOO BULKY.
HE CAN HANDLE IT
BUT NOT FAST ENOUGH.
YEAH, SO HE'D HAVE
TO SPEND MORE ENERGY
ON FEEDING HIMSELF
THAN HE NEEDS
THE ENERGY TO DO IT.
YEAH, HIS NET INTAKE
WOULD PROBABLY
BE NEGATIVE.
WOW, SO HE COULD...
ALTHOUGH HE'S PROBABLY
EATING ALL DAY LONG
HE COULD EVENTUALLY
STARVE TO DEATH.
YEAH, HE'S GOT EXPENSES.
HE'S GOT OVERHEAD
HE'S GOT TO PAY.
YEAH, RIGHT,
TOO MUCH OVERHEAD.
AND YOU LOOK
AT THE BODY SIZES
AND HE'S GOT A LOT MORE
OVERHEAD THAN THIS ONE.
Alda:
CONTRARY TO LEGEND
DARWIN HIMSELF DIDN'T
PAY MUCH ATTENTION
TO THE DULL LITTLE BIRDS THAT
OFTEN HOPPED AROUND HIS FEET.
HE COLLECTED SEVERAL DOZEN
WHILE HE WAS HERE
BUT HE DIDN'T EVEN
BOTHER TO LABEL THEM
OR NOTE WHICH ISLAND
THEY CAME FROM.
BUT BY A DELICIOUS TWIST OF FATE
IT'S THE FINCHES ON ONE
OF THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS--
AN ISLAND DARWIN
DIDN'T EVEN VISIT--
THAT HAVE BECOME
THE SINGLE BEST PROOF
THAT HIS THEORY OF EVOLUTION IS
NO LONGER ONLY A THEORY
BUT AN OBSERVABLE FACT.
YEP, YEP.
Alda:
AS WE APPROACH THE ISLAND
I CAN SEE
WHY DARWIN NEVER LANDED HERE.
YOU MEAN, ON THE FACE
OF THAT CLIFF.
RIGHT THERE, YEP.
IT LOOKS A LITTLE
WORSE FROM HERE
THAN IT REALLY IS.
MAYBE NOT.
IT'S NOT ONLY
A CLIFF.
THE CLIFF STICKS
OUT AT THE TOP.
Alda:
THE ISLAND, CALLED DAPHNE MAJOR,
IS ONLY A MILE OR SO ACROSS.
FOR SOME QUARTER CENTURY NOW
A TEAM OF BIOLOGISTS AND
A STRING OF GRADUATE STUDENTS
INCLUDING BRIEFLY DAVE ANDERSON
HAVE BEEN COMING HERE
EVERY YEAR.
ALL RIGHT!
THIS GUY'S
LIKE A SPIDER.
Alda:
THE RESEARCHERS' SINGLE PURPOSE
HAS BEEN TO WEIGH AND MEASURE
EVERY ONE OF THE FEW HUNDRED
GROUND FINCHES
THAT SHARE THIS LUMP
OF VOLCANIC ROCK
WITH LOW, RATHER SCRUBBY
VEGETATION, SOME SEABIRDS
AND NOT MUCH ELSE APART FROM
THE OCCASIONAL GRUMPY SEA LION.
( barking )
OKAY, I'M SORRY, I'M SORRY.
JUST PASSING THROUGH.
WHY DO PEOPLE GO
TO ALL THIS TROUBLE
OF GETTING
ON THIS THING?
WHAT'S THE SIGNIFICANCE
TO SCIENCE OF DAPHNE MAJOR?
WELL, THERE ARE
SOME FOLKS
WHO CALL DAPHNE MAJOR
THE LABORATORY OF EVOLUTION.
IT'S A REALLY GREAT PLACE TO SEE
EVOLUTION ACTUALLY HAPPENING
BECAUSE THE SYSTEM,
THE BIOLOGICAL SYSTEM, IS
RELATIVELY SIMPLE:
NOT TOO MANY COMPONENTS
AND FOR THE FINCHES
IT KIND OF BOILS DOWN
TO WHAT SEEDS ARE HERE
AND "WHAT TOOL DO I HAVE
TO CRACK THOSE SEEDS?"
Alda:
THE MAIN GROUND FINCH HERE
IS ABOUT HALFWAY IN SIZE
BETWEEN THE TWO SPECIES
DAVE AND I LOOKED AT EARLIER.
WHAT THE RESEARCHERS HAVE FOUND
IS THAT WHEN SMALL SEEDS
ARE PLENTIFUL
USUALLY IN RAINY YEARS
THE BEAKS OF THE BIRDS
BORN THE FOLLOWING YEAR
ARE ALSO, ON AVERAGE, SMALLER.
WHEN THERE ARE PLENTY
OF LARGE SEEDS, IN DRIER YEARS
THE NEXT GENERATION HAS
BEAKS THAT ARE LARGER.
THIS IS EVOLUTION,
AND ITS DRIVING FORCE
DARWIN'S GREAT INSIGHT,
IS NATURAL SELECTION.
HERE'S WHAT'S HAPPENING.
IN EVERY GENERATION OF FINCHES
THERE'S A RANGE OF BEAK SIZES
SOME A LITTLE SMALLER THAN THE
AVERAGE, SOME A LITTLE LARGER.
WHEN SMALL SEEDS ARE PLENTIFUL,
WHEN THERE'S BEEN PLENTY OF RAIN
THE SMALLER-BEAKED BIRDS ARE
THE MORE-EFFICIENT EATERS
SO THEY THRIVE
AND PRODUCE MORE OFFSPRING
THAN THE LARGER-BEAKED BIRDS.
THE RESULT IS
THAT IN THE NEXT GENERATION
THERE ARE MORE SMALL-
THAN LARGE-BEAKED BIRDS.
THE AVERAGE BEAK SIZE IS SMALLER
THAN THE LAST GENERATION.
THE POPULATION HAS EVOLVED.
WHEN CONDITIONS CHANGE
AND A DRY YEAR BRINGS
MORE LARGE SEEDS THAN SMALL
THEN LARGE-BEAKED BIRDS
DO BETTER.
THEY LEAVE MORE OFFSPRING
AND THE POPULATION SHIFTS TOWARD
A LARGER AVERAGE BEAK SIZE.
SMALLER TO LARGER,
LARGER TO SMALLER--
IT'S THESE SUBTLE SHIFTS
IN BEAK SIZE
THAT THE RESEARCHERS HAVE
SO METICULOUSLY DOCUMENTED.
Anderson:
THE REALLY SIGNIFICANT THING
THEY FOUND IS
THAT OSCILLATING BACK AND FORTH
THAT THE SIZE OF THE BEAK
REALLY DOES CHANGE
OVER SHORT PERIODS OF TIME,
AND THEY KNOW EXACTLY WHY.
IT'S BECAUSE THEIR
FOOD SUPPLY CHANGES.
AND THAT'S A CASE OF ACTUALLY
SEEING EVOLUTION IN PROGRESS
TO SEE IT AS IT HAPPENS?
YEAH, YEAH, THE REALLY
COOL THING ABOUT THIS
FOR EVERYBODY,
SCIENTISTS AND EVERYBODY ELSE
IS THAT THERE'S NO QUESTION
THAT IT IS EVOLUTION HAPPENING
IN FRONT OF OUR EYES.
WE DON'T HAVE TO THINK
OF EVOLUTION
AS BEING SOMETHING THAT YOU
ONLY GET FROM THE FOSSIL RECORD
OR THEORIZING ABOUT IT.
YOU CAN GO TO A PLACE LIKE
DAPHNE MAJOR, WHERE IT'S SIMPLE
AND YOU CAN ACTUALLY SEE
EVOLUTION HAPPENING
ALMOST ON A MONTHLY BASIS,
BUT CERTAINLY AN ANNUAL BASIS.
I'VE OFTEN HEARD PEOPLE SAY--
PEOPLE SYMPATHETIC
TO THE IDEA OF EVOLUTION--
THAT YOU HAVE TO TAKE
A LITTLE BIT OF IT ON FAITH.
BUT YOU DON'T HAVE TO TAKE
ANY OF IT ON FAITH?
NOT ANYMORE.
NOT ANYMORE,
NOT AFTER THIS STUDY.
PEOPLE VISIT HERE,
NOT JUST SCIENTISTS.
THEY NEED A TRAIL
THAT'S ESTABLISHED.
Alda:
IT'S WONDERFULLY APPROPRIATE
THAT EVOLUTION SHOULD MOVE
FROM THEORY TO FACT
IN A STUDY OF DARWIN'S FINCHES
BECAUSE IT WAS
WHILE DARWIN HIMSELF
WAS TRYING TO MAKE SENSE OF
HIS HAPHAZARD FINCH COLLECTION
THAT THE IDEA OF EVOLUTION
FIRST OCCURRED TO HIM.
WITH IT, HE COULD EXPLAIN
NOT ONLY WHY DIFFERENT ISLANDS
HAVE DIFFERENT FINCHES
BUT ALSO DIFFERENT
MOCKINGBIRDS...
DIFFERENT PLANTS...
DIFFERENT TORTOISES.
FROM THE TIME THEIR ANCESTORS
ARRIVED IN THE ARCHIPELAGO
THE ANIMALS ON DIFFERENT ISLANDS
HAVE GONE
THEIR OWN INDEPENDENT WAYS
SHAPED BY THE CONDITIONS
THEY FOUND THEMSELVES IN
UNTIL EVENTUALLY
THEY BECAME DIFFERENT SPECIES.
AS FOR HOW
THEIR ANCESTORS GOT HERE
WELL, WE'RE COMING TO THAT.
GETTING HERE WAS NO PROBLEM
FOR THE ANCESTORS
OF THE GALAPAGOS SEA LION.
LYNN FOWLER HAS PROMISED ME
AN UNDERWATER RENDEZVOUS
WITH A SEA LION PUP
AND THIS BEING THE GALAPAGOS,
THERE'S AN EAGER VOLUNTEER.
THE GALAPAGOS SEA LION,
LIKE MOST OF THE CREATURES HERE
HAS CHANGED SINCE IT ARRIVED
EVOLVING INTO A SMALLER VERSION
OF ITS CALIFORNIA COUSIN.
Alda:
I SAW HIS FACE
AND IT WAS LIKE "SO WHAT
ARE YOU GOING TO DO?
WHAT DO YOU WANT TO DO?"
Alda:
SEA LIONS CAN SWIM.
BUT HOW DID LAND ANIMALS GET WAY
OUT HERE IN THE PACIFIC OCEAN?
THE EXPLANATION I'VE HEARD WAS
THAT THEY CAME ON FLOATING RAFTS
OF VEGETATION.
BUT IGUANAS AND TORTOISES
ARE HEFTY CREATURES.
SO THEY HAD
TO HAVE HAD
A PRETTY HEFTY RAFT
TO GET OVER HERE.
YEAH, WELL, THERE ARE
BIG CHUNKS OF LAND
THAT COME DOWN SOME
OF THOSE RIVERS
ON THE SOUTH
AMERICAN CONTINENT.
AND THEY FLOAT WAY
OUT HERE, 600 MILES.
AN ACTUAL CHUNK
OF LAND?
I THOUGHT
IT WAS JUST
LIKE, YOU KNOW,
TWIGS OR BRANCHES.
THERE ARE CHUNKS OF LAND
THAT EVEN HAVE STANDING TREES
THAT HAVE BEEN SEEN FLOATING
WAY OUT TO SEA IN THE OCEAN.
AND THOSE COULD EASILY BRING
SEVERAL SPECIES AT ONCE
TO A SYSTEM LIKE THIS.
Alda:
OF ALL THE IMMIGRANTS HERE
FEW HAVE ADAPTED
SO SUCCESSFULLY TO ISLAND LIFE
AS THE MARINE IGUANAS.
WHEREVER YOU GO
ALONG THE SHORELINE
IGUANAS WILL BE ON DISPLAY,
SOMETIMES LITERALLY.
HE'S GREEN ON
THE TOP AND RED
ALONG HIS BODY.
WHAT DOES THAT...
YEAH, THAT'S
A BREEDING MALE.
IT'S THE COLORATION
THEY GET...
THAT'S A SIGNAL
HE'S READY TO BREED?
THAT HE'S READY.
THEN HE'LL SET UP
A TERRITORY
AND TRY TO ATTRACT
SOME FEMALES TO IT.
BUT THAT'S A BIG
BREEDING MALE.
BEAUTIFUL, ISN'T IT?
WHAT DOES HE DO
TO ATTRACT FEMALES?
JUST DISPLAY HIS...
YOU SEE THAT
HEAD BOBBING.
THAT'S KIND OF COOL.
YEAH, RIGHT:
"LOOK, BABE, I CAN
DO 20 PUSH-UPS."
( laughs ):
YEAH, RIGHT.
"I'M THE MAN FOR YOU."
HE'S A BEAUTY,
THOUGH, ISN'T HE?
YEAH, HE IS.
DOESN'T THAT LOOK
LIKE GODZILLA?
YEAH.
Alda:
CHARLES DARWIN,
HAD HE EVER HEARD OF GODZILLA
MIGHT HAVE AGREED:
"IT IS A HIDEOUS-LOOKING
CREATURE, STUPID
"AND SLUGGISH
IN ITS MOVEMENTS.
"WHEN IN THE WATER,
THIS LIZARD SWIMS
"WITH PERFECT EASE AND QUICKNESS
"BY A SERPENTINE MOVEMENT
OF ITS BODY AND FLATTENED TAIL
"THE LEGS BEING MOTIONLESS
AND COLLAPSED AT ITS SIDES.
"I OPENED THE STOMACHS
OF SEVERAL
AND FOUND THEM LARGELY DISTENDED
WITH MINCED SEAWEED."
DARWIN PUT HIS FINGER
ON JUST THOSE ADAPTATIONS
THAT HAVE MADE THE MARINE IGUANA
FIT SO PERFECTLY
INTO ITS ISLAND HOME.
ALL HE WANTS
IS GREENS, HUH?
YEAH, UH-HUH.
I MEAN, VEGETABLES.
ALL THAT SEA
LETTUCE, OVA
IS THEIR
FAVORITE FOOD.
Alda:
THE ANCESTORS OF THESE CREATURES
WERE LIKE ALL THE OTHER LIZARDS
IN THE WORLD
SWIMMING ONLY WHEN THEY HAD TO.
HE MADE IT
UP THE CLIFF.
Alda:
BUT THE GALAPAGOS MARINE
IGUANAS, AS THEIR NAME IMPLIES
HAVE TURNED TO THE SEA
TO SUSTAIN THEM
EATING AS VIRTUALLY
THEIR ONLY FOOD
THE BRIGHT GREEN ALGAE
THAT GROWS ALL ALONG
AND BENEATH THE SHORELINE.
NOT ONLY HAVE THEY BECOME
EXPERT SWIMMERS
THEY'VE ALSO DEVELOPED
THE ABILITY TO DIGEST THE ALGAE
WITH THE HELP OF A BACTERIUM
THAT LIVES IN THEIR HIND GUT.
THIS SPECIALIZATION HAS MADE
THE MARINE IGUANAS
THE LORDS OF THE SEASHORE
BUT IT HAS ALSO LEFT THEM
EXTREMELY VULNERABLE.
MARTIN WIKELSKI HAS WITNESSED
THEIR VULNERABILITY FIRSTHAND.
WHAT WAS THIS LIKE
DURING THAT LAST
GREAT EL NIÑO?
WELL, IT WAS HORRIBLE.
THOSE GUYS ARE
ABOUT TEN PERCENT
OF ALL THE ANIMALS
THAT WERE HERE.
THERE WERE
TEN TIMES AS MANY?
TEN TIMES AS MANY.
AND THEY WERE
GOING TO FORAGE.
THEY WERE TRYING TO GET
THE LAST BITS OF ALGAE
AND THEN SLOWLY
WALKING UP THE BEACH.
AND SOMETIMES THEY DIDN'T
MAKE IT UP THE BEACH
SO THEY WOULD JUST SORT
OF PUT ONE FOOT FORWARD
AND STILL TRY TO GO UP
BUT THEN REALLY BAKE
IN THE SAND, LITERALLY.
AND THEY JUST ALL DIED
IN FRONT OF OUR EYES.
SO WE HAD, I THINK, LIKE 400
DEAD ANIMALS DURING A FEW WEEKS.
THAT'S PRETTY AMAZING.
NOW, WAS THAT BECAUSE ALL THIS
GREEN WE SEE HERE WAS NOT HERE?
YEAH, ALL THIS GREEN YOU
SEE WAS TOTALLY BLACK.
THERE WAS ABSOLUTELY NOTHING
GROWING ON THESE ROCKS.
Alda:
THE CAUSE OF THE DEVASTATION
WAS THE 1997-'98 EL NIÑO
A PLUME OF UNUSUALLY WARM WATER
THAT WREAKED HAVOC WITH WEATHER
PATTERNS ALL OVER THE GLOBE.
ITS IMPACT ON THE GALAPAGOS
WAS MORE DIRECT
BATHING THE ISLANDS
IN WARM WATER
AND DRIVING OUT THE COLD
NUTRIENT-RICH CURRENTS
THAT NORMALLY SUSTAIN
THE MARINE LIFE HERE.
EVERYTHING ON AND
AROUND THE ISLANDS THAT
LIVES OFF THE SEA SUFFERED
BUT THE MARINE IGUANAS
WHOSE SOLE SOURCE OF FOOD
WITHERED AWAY
SUFFERED THE MOST.
BUT IT TURNS OUT
THAT EVEN DURING GOOD YEARS
THE MARINE IGUANAS HERE
ON THE ISLAND OF GENOVESA
HAVE TO STRUGGLE
TO MAKE A LIVING.
Alda:
WHY DO WE SEE
SO MANY SMALLISH
IGUANAS HERE?
RIGHT.
THIS ISLAND GETS
LEAST OF THE NUTRIENTS.
AND THAT MEANS
THAT THIS ALGAE...
YOU PROBABLY SAW IGUANAS
FORAGING ALREADY.
YES.
THEY SOMETIMES HAVE
THESE HUGE ALGAE PASTURES
AND THEY JUST GET
A MOUTHFUL OF ALGAE EVERY BITE.
BUT HERE THEY ONLY HAVE
A TINY LITTLE CARPET OF ALGAE
AND THEY CONSTANTLY
HAVE TO SCRAPE IT OFF.
SO THAT HAS SELECTED
OUT THE BIG ONES.
RIGHT, ABSOLUTELY.
THE BIG ONES
THAT MIGHT BE BORN HERE
JUST AREN'T GOING TO GET
ENOUGH NUTRIENTS.
YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
THAT'S INTERESTING.
SO THERE THEY ARE.
THAT'S THE PRODUCT
OF NATURAL SELECTION
RIGHT THERE.
Alda:
BUT EVEN AMONG THESE
SMALLER-THAN-AVERAGE ANIMALS
SOME OF THE MALES ARE
CLEARLY LARGER.
THIS BIG GUY
HAS WALKED THROUGH
THE ENTIRE COLLECTION
DOING THAT
NODDING THING
WHICH IS TO ANNOUNCE
HIS TERRITORY, RIGHT?
RIGHT.
BUT IS HE THE ONLY ONE
IN THIS WHOLE BATCH
THAT'S DOMINANT
LIKE THAT?
HE'S THE HOT SHOT.
HE'S DEFINITELY
THE PRIZE MALE
BECAUSE YOU SEE
ALL THESE FEMALES
AROUND HERE?
THEY ALL LIKE
TO HANG OUT WITH HIM.
SO THE FEMALES ARE
THE ONES THAT CHOOSE
IN THIS SYSTEM
AND THE MALES JUST
TRY TO DO THEIR BEST.
THE FEMALES ARE ATTRACTED
TO THIS BIG HANDSOME GUY--
THIS UGLY THING HERE.
WAIT, HE'S NOT UGLY.
I KNOW YOU COME
HERE EVERY DAY
AND YOU KIND OF LIKE
THE WAY THEY LOOK NOW
BUT I'M TELLING YOU,
I JUST GOT HERE...
YOU SHOULD BE
HERE 30 DAYS
AND YOU'LL LIKE THEM.
YEAH, RIGHT,
OKAY, OKAY.
Alda:
YES, MARTIN ACTUALLY DOES SPEND
THE ENTIRE 30 DAYS THE IGUANAS
HERE ARE DECIDING ON MATES
WATCHING TO SEE
WHICH MALES THE FEMALES PICK.
IT'S AN IMPORTANT DECISION.
EACH OF THOSE FEMALES
ONLY HAS ONE EGG.
OH, REALLY?
IT'S ABSOLUTELY AMAZING.
THEY HAVE ABOUT 25%
OF THEIR BODY MASS
IN ONE EGG.
SO IT REALLY COUNTS
WHO THEY CHOOSE.
ABSOLUTELY.
Alda:
MARTIN IS TRYING TO UNDERSTAND
WHY-- IF THE BIG GUYS
ARE SO POPULAR--
THE GROUP HERE ALSO CONTAINS
A NUMBER OF MUCH SMALLER MALES
WHO, INSTEAD OF SHOWING OFF,
KEEP A DELIBERATELY LOW PROFILE.
SEE THAT GUY?
HE WAS SORT OF SNEAKING
UP ON THE FEMALE
TRYING TO GET HER.
THAT'S ONE OF THE SMALL
SNEAKER MALES
THAT HANG OUT
IN THE TERRITORIES
AND THEY TRY TO SORT OF
SNEAK UP ON THE FEMALES.
THEY'RE ABOUT
THE FEMALES' SIZE
SO THE MALE CAN'T TELL
THEM FROM FEMALES.
SO THEY JUST TRY
TO SNEAK UP ON FEMALES
AND TRY TO MATE WITH
THEM, IF THEY CAN.
SO IN A WAY
HE GETS AN ADVANTAGE.
HE HAS A CHANCE
TO SNEAK UP
BECAUSE HE'S
A FEMALE IMPERSONATOR
RIGHT UP UNTIL
THE LAST MOMENT.
YEP, YEP.
Alda:
THERE MUST BE SOME REASON
THE FEMALES ACCEPT THE SNEAKERS
OR NATURAL SELECTION WOULD HAVE
LONG SINCE HAVE ELIMINATED THEM.
MARTIN'S HYPOTHESIS IS THAT
KEEPING SMALLNESS GENES AROUND
PROVIDES THE FEMALES
WITH A SORT OF INSURANCE POLICY
AGAINST THOSE
BRUTAL EL NIÑO YEARS
WHEN BEING BIG CAN BE FATAL.
AND THAT SEEMS TO BE
SORT OF A LONG-TERM STRATEGY
THAT THEY CAN'T REALLY KNOW
WHEN THE NEXT EL NIÑO HITS
SO SOMETIMES THEY MIGHT
JUST CHOOSE A SMALL GUY
AS A MATING PARTNER
TO HAVE SOME SMALLER OFFSPRING
AND AT SOME OTHER TIMES
THEY MIGHT CHOOSE A BIGGER ONE.
ONE YEAR
YOU TRY IT BIG
NEXT YEAR
YOU TRY IT SMALL
AND YOU PROTECT YOURSELF
ALL THE WAY AROUND.
HE'S NOT GOING
TO MIND THIS
COMING IN HIS FACE?
WELL...
DO IT SLOWLY AND...
Alda:
IN THE COURSE OF TESTING
HIS INSURANCE IDEA
MARTIN HAS CAUGHT THOUSANDS OF
MARINE IGUANAS HERE ON GENOVESA.
THE LEAST I CAN DO
IS LEND A HAND WITH ONE.
( Wikelski chuckles )
NOW HE PROBABLY
IS ON TO THIS.
HE'S NOT GOING
TO LIKE THIS AT ALL.
WOW, THAT'S A GOOD ONE.
EXCELLENT.
I HAVE GOOD BEGINNER'S LUCK.
( chuckling )
Alda:
THIS IGUANA WAS FIRST
CAUGHT AND MARKED BY MARTIN
WHEN IT WAS A HATCHLING.
12 YEARS LATER, IT'S ONE
OF THE KINGS AROUND HERE.
BUT IF ANOTHER EL NIÑO COMES
AND THIS GUY'S TOO BIG
THEN WE BASICALLY FIND
HIS BODY ON THE BEACH SOMEDAY.
THAT'S THE FIRST ONE
FOR THE SEASON.
JUST GIVE HIM AN "A."
Alda:
THE PAINT WILL MAKE IT EASIER
TO KEEP AN EYE ON HIM.
IS IT POSSIBLE
THAT THIS WILL
TURN OUT TO BE
SOME CUE TO THE FEMALES
THAT THIS GUY SHOULD
BE AVOIDED AT ALL COSTS?
THAT'S
A GOOD POINT.
DO THEY TAKE
ANY VISUAL CUES?
MANY PEOPLE AT
CONFERENCES ASK ME.
OH, YEAH?
WE DID TEST IT
BECAUSE IN ANOLES,
IN OTHER LIZARDS
IT WOULD MAKE
A BIG DIFFERENCE
BUT IN THOSE GUYS
IT DOESN'T.
SO THE FEMALES DON'T
GO FOR COLORATION.
THEY DON'T CARE
ABOUT THE MARKINGS
WE PUT ON THEM
AND THEY PROBABLY
ONLY GO FOR THE SIZE
AND FOR THE BEHAVIOR.
YEAH, BUT THIS GUY
IS NOW CLEARLY
A MOVIE STAR.
I MEAN,
THEY'RE GOING TO...
AREN'T THEY GOING
TO NOTICE THAT?
THAT IS TRUE.
SO THAT'S IT
FOR THIS GUY.
WE CAN LET HIM GO.
OKAY.
Alda:
MARTIN WIKELSKI ISN'T
THE FIRST SCIENTIST
TO CATCH AND RELEASE MARINE
IGUANAS HERE IN THE GALAPAGOS:
"I THREW ONE SEVERAL TIMES
AS FAR AS I COULD
"INTO A DEEP POOL LEFT
BY THE RETIRING TIDE;
"BUT IT INVARIABLY RETURNED
IN A DIRECT LINE
"TO THE SPOT WHERE I STOOD.
"PERHAPS THIS SINGULAR PIECE
OF APPARENT STUPIDITY
"MAY BE ACCOUNTED FOR
BY THE CIRCUMSTANCE
"THAT THIS REPTILE HAS
NO ENEMY WHATEVER ON THE SHORE
"WHEREAS AT SEA
IT MUST OFTEN FALL A PREY
"TO THE NUMEROUS SHARKS.
"HENCE, PROBABLY, URGED BY
A FIXED AND HEREDITARY INSTINCT
"THAT THE SHORE IS
ITS PLACE OF SAFETY
WHATEVER THE EMERGENCY MAY BE,
IT THERE TAKES REFUGE."
Alda:
LATE ONE AFTERNOON
LYNN AND I FOUND OURSELVES
STEPPING CAREFULLY
TO AVOID MARINE IGUANAS
LOUNGING BEFORE BEDTIME
ALL OVER THE WATERFRONT
OF THE ISLAND OF FERNANDINA.
OOPS, ALMOST STEPPED
ON ITS TAIL.
Alda:
I REMEMBER MY SURPRISED
AND DELIGHTED REACTION
TO THE FIRST MARINE IGUANA
I SAW ONLY A FEW DAYS AGO.
BUT ALREADY THEY'VE BECOME
SIMPLY PART OF THE PLACE.
BUT JUST WATCH THEM FOR A WHILE.
WHAT AN EXTRAORDINARY STORY
THEY TELL.
FOR HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS,
PERHAPS MILLIONS OF YEARS
THEY'VE LIVED AND DIED HERE
SLOWLY SCULPTED
BY THAT LIVING AND DYING
FROM THE LAND CREATURES
THEY ONCE WERE
INTO THE IMPERIOUS MASTERS
OF THEIR NEW MARINE ENVIRONMENT.
IT'S A STORY THAT,
FOR ONE GIDDY MOMENT
IT SEEMS TO ME
THEY DESERVE TO HEAR.
NO, I'M SERIOUS.
THERE'S THIS GUY CHARLES DARWIN
WHO SAYS IT'S SO.
LOOK, YOU HAVE TO BELIEVE ME.
YOU ALL DESCENDED FROM
SOME LIZARD A LONG TIME AGO.
WHO... COULD I SEE
A SHOW OF CLAWS?
WHO BELIEVES THAT?
Alda:
I SHOULD HAVE KNOWN
FROM MY FIRST ENCOUNTER
WITH A BIRD CALLED
THE MASKED BOOBY
THAT THIS IS A CREATURE
WITH A STRANGE SENSE
OF RIGHT AND WRONG.
WHOOP.
HOLD TIGHT...
OKAY, OKAY!
( chuckling )
WE GOT
A LITTLE CLOSE
TO THE GUANO
RING THERE.
Alda:
MY SECOND ENCOUNTER CAME
IN THE COMPANY
OF DAVE ANDERSON.
( squawks )
ALL RIGHT, ALAN.
HERE WE'VE GOT
A NESTLING MASKED BOOBY
WITH ITS PARENT
WHO HAS CONVENIENTLY
STEPPED ASIDE
SO THAT WE CAN PUT
A BAND ON ITS CHICK.
Alda:
DAVE HAS BEEN STUDYING MASKED
BOOBIES FOR HALF HIS LIFE
TRYING TO UNDERSTAND
A SINGULARLY GRUESOME FACT...
GENTLY GRAB
THE BIRD.
Alda:
THAT THIS YOUNG BOOBY, ALL
FLUFFY AND APPARENTLY INNOCENT
MAY WELL HAVE
COMMITTED MURDER.
THIS IS MAYBE
A 35-, 40-DAY-OLD
MASKED BOOBY CHICK
AND IT CAN GIVE
YOU A GOOD NIP.
SO IF YOU WOULD LIKE
TO HOLD THIS BIRD...
IT COULD GIVE YOU
A GOOD NIP
SO IF I WOULD
LIKE TO HOLD IT?
IS THAT, LIKE,
AN ACTUAL SENTENCE?
YEAH, NOW,
DON'T SQUEEZE IT.
JUST GET UP
AROUND THE HEAD SO...
Alda:
NOT ONLY IS THIS BABY BOOBY
A NATURAL-BORN KILLER;
THE CREATURE IT MAY HAVE KILLED
WAS ITS OWN SIBLING.
WE'RE GOING TO GIVE
THIS BIRD A NAME.
PROBABLY ALREADY
HAS A NAME
BUT THIS IS WHAT I'M
GOING TO CALL IT: 95289.
Alda:
DAVE ANDERSON WANTS TO KNOW
WHY THE MURDER OCCURRED.
EVEN MORE, HE WANTS TO KNOW
WHY THE PARENTS DID
NOTHING TO STOP IT.
AND WE'LL PUT THIS
LITTLE CHICK BACK IN HIS HOME.
LITTLE CHICK NEEDS TO CALM DOWN.
THERE.
Alda:
TO ANSWER THESE QUESTIONS
ANDERSON HAS BEEN COMING HERE
TO THE ISLAND OF ESPAÑOLA
FOR 20 YEARS.
MASKED BOOBIES BREED IN COLONIES
AND THINGS START OFF
ROMANTICALLY ENOUGH.
SOME OF THESE BIRDS
DON'T HAVE A MATE.
AND SO WHEN THEY'RE
TRYING TO FIND ONE
THEY CHECK OUT
DIFFERENT POSSIBILITIES
AND THEY GET TOGETHER
AND THEY MAYBE HAVE
A DATE FOR AN AFTERNOON
WHERE THEY GIVE EACH
OTHER LITTLE GIFTS--
TWIGS AND STUFF LIKE THAT--
AND IF THEY'RE NOT COMPATIBLE
THEY'LL KNOW PRETTY QUICKLY
AND IF THEY ARE COMPATIBLE,
MAYBE THEY'LL CONTINUE.
IT'S A LOT LIKE A SPECIES
WE KNOW PRETTY WELL.
MOST BIRDS IN OTHER SPECIES MAKE
A NEST AND MASKED BOOBIES DON'T.
BUT THE BUILDING OF A NEST
AND ACCUMULATION OF MATERIAL
AND SHOWING WHAT
A GREAT TWIG YOU'VE GOT
IS STILL PART OF THE RITUAL.
SO IT'S ANOTHER WAY
OF SAYING, YOU KNOW
"I'M IN A FAMILY WAY.
"ARE YOU?
"DO YOU LIKE THIS TWIG?
"MAYBE IF WE LIKE
THE SAME KIND OF TWIG
WE MIGHT BE ABLE
TO GET TOGETHER."
( booby whistles )
Alda:
BUT ONCE THE WEDDING BELLS
HAVE RUNG
THE HARSH REALITY
OF MASKED BOOBY LIFE BEGINS.
Anderson:
THIS PARENT HAS
TWO CHICKS UNDER IT.
ONE OF THEM HATCHED
ABOUT SEVEN DAYS AGO
AND THE OTHER ONE HATCHED
OUT OF THIS EGGSHELL
ABOUT TWO DAYS AGO.
WHEN THE SECOND CHICK HATCHED
IT WAS A SMALLER SIZE
AND LESS CAPABLE
AND THE FIRST CHICK
IS GOING TO PUSH THIS HELPLESS
SECOND CHICK OUT OF THE NEST
IF IT BEHAVES LIKE
NORMAL MASKED BOOBY CHICKS.
Alda:
FOR THE FIRST FEW DAYS
THE CHICKS AMICABLY
SHARE THEIR NEST.
BUT ON DAY FIVE,
THINGS TURN NASTY.
( chick squeals )
( younger chick squeaks feebly )
( parent bird squawks )
Alda:
THE MAIN THING THE PARENT
IS PROVIDING FOR THE CHICKS
IS SHELTER FROM THE GLARING SUN.
THE OLDER CHICK IS TRYING
TO PUSH THE YOUNGER
OUT FROM THE SHADE,
TO A SLOW BUT CERTAIN DEATH.
THROUGHOUT THE STRUGGLE
THE PARENT REMAINS ALOOF
AND APPARENTLY INDIFFERENT.
Anderson:
THE PARENT IS NOT GOING TO DO
ANYTHING ABOUT THIS SIBLICIDE--
WE CALL IT SIBLICIDE,
THE KILLING OF A SIBLING.
IF IT'S LIKE MOST
MASKED BOOBY PARENTS
IT WILL SIMPLY WATCH OR LOOK
AROUND OR DO SOMETHING ELSE
BUT IT WILL NOT HELP
THIS POOR OFFSPRING
THAT'S BEING KILLED
BY ITS OWN SIBLING.
THE FIRST TIME I SAW THIS HAPPEN
I COULDN'T BELIEVE WHAT
BAD LUCK THE "B" CHICK HAD.
ITS CLOSEST RELATIVE
IN THE WORLD
IS THROWING IT OUT OF THE NEST
TO DIE ON THE HOT GROUND
OF SUNSTROKE.
UM... IT'S SORT OF
A MISERABLE THING TO SEE.
I'VE SEEN IT ENOUGH TIMES NOW
THAT I ACCEPT THAT THAT'S
THE NORMAL WAY OF BOOBY LIFE
BUT IT IS KIND OF SHOCKING
THE FIRST TIME YOU SEE IT.
Alda:
SHOCKING, AND IN
DARWINIAN TERMS BAFFLING
AT LEAST AT FIRST SIGHT.
AFTER ALL, THAT'S THE PARENT'S
OWN GENES LYING THERE DYING.
Alda:
I DON'T UNDERSTAND
THE ECONOMICS OF THIS.
IF SHE'S GOING TO LAY TWO EGGS
AND EVERYBODY KNOWS
THAT THE FIRST ONE IS GOING
TO KILL THE SECOND ONE
WHY EXPEND ALL THAT ENERGY
TO LAY A SECOND EGG?
IT SEEMS
LIKE A WASTE.
YEAH.
IN TERMS OF NATURAL SELECTION
SELECTION IS GOING
TO MAXIMIZE THE EXCESS BENEFITS
OVER THE COST.
SO CERTAINLY THE BENEFIT
HAS TO EXCEED THE COST.
IN THIS CASE, THERE'S A BENEFIT
TO LAYING THE SECOND EGG
EVEN IF YOU ONLY WANT ONE CHICK
BECAUSE THEY HAVE
LOUSY HATCHING SUCCESS.
THEY ONLY HATCH
ABOUT 60% OF THEIR EGGS
EVEN IF YOU ELIMINATE
ACCIDENTS AND STUFF.
SOMETHING ABOUT FERTILITY
OR EMBRYO DEVELOPMENT
CAUSES 40% OF THEM TO DIE.
SO IF YOU'RE GOING
TO GET ONE CHICK--
YOU GOT TO HAVE ONE CHICK--
YOU'RE PREPARED TO PAY
THE PRICE OF A SECOND EGG
EVEN THOUGH IT'S EXPENSIVE,
BECAUSE IF THE FIRST ONE FAILS
THE SECOND ONE
CAN TAKE ITS PLACE.
IT SEEMS TO ME
THAT ONCE YOU'VE GONE TO
THE TROUBLE OF LAYING TWO EGGS
AND YOU HAVE A GOOD SHOT
AT HAVING TWO HEALTHY ADULTS
COME OUT OF THAT
ISN'T YOUR PURPOSE BETTER SERVED
TO... TO LET BOTH OF THEM LIVE?
YEAH, GOOD QUESTION.
IF YOU EXPERIMENTALLY STOP
THE SIBLICIDE FROM HAPPENING
AND MAKE THEM PLAY NICE,
AND THEN CHALLENGE THE PARENTS
TO BRING BACK
ENOUGH FOOD FOR TWO
ABOUT 30% OF THE TIME,
THEY CAN DO IT.
SHE DOESN'T STOP FEEDING.
IF THERE ARE TWO CHICKS
IN FRONT OF HER
SHE'LL FEED THEM-- YOU KNOW,
OPEN MOUTH, PUT IN FOOD--
THAT'S WHAT SHE DOES.
AND IF THERE ARE
TWO OF THEM THERE
SHE PUTS IT IN
AT TWICE THE RATE.
SO YOU SAY, "WELL, THEY
DEFINITELY SHOULD BE STOPPING
THE SIBLICIDE FROM HAPPENING."
HOWEVER, IF YOU FOLLOW
THOSE PARENTS ANOTHER YEAR
YOU FIND OUT IN THE YEAR
AFTER THEY RAISED TWO CHICKS
THEY TAKE IT ON THE CHIN
IN TERMS OF SURVIVAL
PARTICULARLY THE MOMS.
REGULAR MOMS SURVIVE AT ABOUT
92% OVER... FROM YEAR TO YEAR
AND THE EXPERIMENTALS THAT
HAVE HAD TO RAISE TWO CHICKS
SURVIVE AT ABOUT 75%,
AND THAT'S A HUGE COST.
Alda:
A COST THAT IN TERMS
OF NATURAL SELECTION
SIMPLY CANNOT BE SUSTAINED.
Alda:
THIS IS REALLY FASCINATING.
BUT ON THE OTHER HAND
I'M SPENDING JUST A FEW HOURS
TALKING TO YOU ABOUT THIS
AND YOU'RE SPENDING
YOUR LIFE ON IT.
HOW DID YOU GET LED TO THAT?
IT'S A PROBLEM
THAT ON THE SURFACE SEEMS
FAIRLY EASY TO ADDRESS--
THE PROBLEM BEING,
WHY LAY THAT SECOND EGG?
GIVEN THAT YOU LAY A SECOND EGG,
WHY NOT TRY TO RAISE TWO CHICKS?
BUT TO ACTUALLY LOOK AT HOW
SELECTION ACTS ON INDIVIDUALS
YOU REALLY OUGHT TO HAVE
A LONG-TERM PERSPECTIVE
AND FOLLOWING
THE LIFETIME CONSEQUENCES
OF A LONG-LIVED ANIMAL MAY
TAKE UP MOST OF YOUR CAREER.
SOME OF THE BIRDS THAT I HAVE
INITIATED STUDY OF AS BABIES
ARE GOING TO OUTLIVE MY CAREER.
Alda:
BUT MANY WON'T.
EVEN CHICKS THAT HAVE WON
THE BATTLE OF THE NEST
FALL PREY TO MOCKINGBIRDS
PECKING THEM FOR THEIR BLOOD.
AND THEN THERE ARE
THE CONSTANTLY MARAUDING
FRIGATE BIRDS
ALWAYS LOOKING TO SNATCH
A CHICK FROM ITS NEST.
Anderson:
I MEAN, YOU EITHER GET
KILLED BY YOUR SIBLING
AND YOUR PARENTS DON'T CARE
OR IF YOU MANAGE TO SURVIVE
THAT PROCESS
THEN WHEN YOUR PARENTS
LEAVE YOU ALONE
A FRIGATE BIRD MIGHT
COME DOWN AND TAKE YOU
AND DROP YOU FROM
A HUNDRED FEET IN THE AIR.
Alda:
DAVE ANDERSON'S LIFE AMONG
THE MASKED BOOBIES OF ESPAÑOLA
HAS GIVEN HIM UNUSUAL ACCESS
TO THE DAILY STRUGGLE
THAT DRIVES EVOLUTION.
AND IT ISN'T A PRETTY SIGHT.
LIFE STINKS FOR MOST ORGANISMS
MOST OF THE TIME
AND WE MAYBE DON'T
REALIZE IT SO MUCH
LOOKING AT CONTINENTAL SYSTEMS
AS OPPOSED TO HERE
BECAUSE HERE THE ANIMALS DO
THEIR SUFFERING OUT IN THE OPEN
AND PARTICULARLY
THESE BOOBIES.
THEY JUST HAVE A MISERABLE LIFE
YOU WOULDN'T WISH
ON YOUR WORST ENEMY--
ALL THESE TERRIBLE THINGS
THAT CAN HAPPEN TO YOU.
AND IT'S REALLY APPARENT TO US,
BECAUSE IT'S...
THEY'RE NOT HIDING IT.
THEY DON'T HAVE A HISTORY
OF TRYING TO HIDE
FROM CREATURES LIKE US
AND SO THEY JUST DO IT
IN FRONT OF US.
WE CAN SORT OF PARTICIPATE
IN THE COMMUNITY
AS A KIND OF IGNORED OBSERVER
WALKING DOWN THE BACK ALLEYS
OF THEIR LIVES
AND THEY SORT OF LET US DO IT.
Alda:
AMONG THE MORE RECENT IMMIGRANTS
TO THE GALAPAGOS ARE HUMANS.
WHEN DARWIN CAME IN 1835
PEOPLE LIVED SCATTERED IN SMALL
FISHING AND FARMING COMMUNITIES
THROUGHOUT THE ARCHIPELAGO.
WITH PEOPLE CAME ANIMALS
THAT WOULD NEVER HAVE
MADE IT HERE ON THEIR OWN:
CHICKENS, DOGS, CATS..
GOATS, PIGS, CATTLE.
TODAY THERE ARE STRICT RULES
GOVERNING WHERE PEOPLE
AND THEIR ANIMALS CAN LIVE.
96% OF THE LAND IS NATIONAL PARK
OFF-LIMITS TO ANYONE
NOT ACCOMPANIED BY A GUIDE
LIKE LYNN FOWLER.
BUT WHILE PEOPLE
CAN BE CONTROLLED
THE ANIMALS THEY'VE
BROUGHT WITH THEM CAN'T.
WE'RE CLIMBING A PEAK
OVERLOOKING SANTIAGO
ONE OF THE FOUR ISLANDS
ON DARWIN'S ITINERARY.
Fowler:
WHEN DARWIN
CAMPED THERE...
THAT'S ALL SANTIAGO
OVER THERE?
YEAH-- THERE
WERE SO MANY
LAND IGUANAS ON IT
THAT HE COULD
HARDLY FIND A PLACE
TO PITCH HIS TENT
BECAUSE OF THE
LAND IGUANA BURROWS.
( chuckles )
BUT THEY'RE
EXTINCT NOW.
THEY'RE EXTINCT
FROM SANTIAGO.
THOSE... REALLY?
WELL, HOW DID
THAT HAPPEN?
DOGS AND PIGS...
AND RATS.
THEY GO
RIGHT INTO THE...
THE RATS ATTACK
THE IGUANAS?
THEY GO IN THE
LAND IGUANA BURROWS
AND EAT THE
EGGS AND KILL THE
LITTLE HATCHLINGS.
Alda:
ONE OF THE GALAPAGOS NATIVES
WORST HIT BY HUMANS
AND THE ANIMALS
THEY BROUGHT WITH THEM
IS THE GIANT TORTOISE.
ORIGINALLY DECIMATED BY WHALERS
HAULING THEM OFF FOR FOOD
THEY HAVE SINCE HAD TO COMPETE
WITH PIGS AND GOATS
THAT HAVE GONE WILD
AND RUN RAMPANT
OVER MANY OF THE ISLANDS.
( tortoise hissing )
30 YEARS AGO, THE POPULATION
OF THE CHARACTERISTICALLY
SADDLE-BACKED TORTOISES
OF ESPAÑOLA
WAS DOWN TO JUST 13--
12 FEMALES AND A MALE.
BROUGHT HERE TO THE CHARLES
DARWIN RESEARCH STATION
ON THE ISLAND OF SANTA CRUZ,
THESE 13 TORTOISES--
AIDED BY A SECOND MALE RECRUITED
FROM THE SAN DIEGO ZOO--
HAVE SINCE PRODUCED
HUNDREDS OF OFFSPRING.
LAVISHLY FED AND
KEPT SAFE FROM RATS
UNTIL THEIR SHELLS ARE STRONG
ENOUGH TO PROTECT THEM
THE YOUNGSTERS HERE CAN
LOOK FORWARD TO A LONG LIFE.
LET ME JUST
CURVE HIM IN.
HERE WE GO.
( laughing )
DON'T BE SHY.
HE'S HOW OLD?
THIS ONE'S ABOUT
A YEAR AND A HALF OLD.
AND HOW OLD WILL
HE GET TO BE
IF HE'S LUCKY?
WELL, WE CAN GUARANTEE
THAT THEY LIVE BETWEEN
60 AND 90 YEARS OLD
BUT HISTORY BOOKS
AND STORIES THAT ARE
A BIT DIFFICULT TO CONFIRM SAY
ANYTHING UP TO 150, 200 YEARS.
Alda:
THE PROJECT OWES ITS SUCCESS
LARGELY TO THIS MAN,
CRUZ MARQUEZ
WHO WITH HIS COLLEAGUES
HAS HAD TO INVENT
THE CAPTIVE-BREEDING PROCESS
AS THEY WENT ALONG.
A CRITICAL REALIZATION WAS
THAT THE SEX OF THE HATCHLINGS
DEPENDS UPON THE TEMPERATURE AT
WHICH THE EGGS ARE INCUBATED...
ONE'S COMING
OUT, HUH?
Alda:
29.5 DEGREES CELSIUS
GIVES YOU FEMALES;
28 DEGREES CELSIUS,
AND YOU GET MALES.
SOUNDS LIKE YOU
MUST HAVE TO HAVE
A PRETTY SOPHISTICATED
SYSTEM HERE
TO KEEP THE TEMPERATURE
WHAT YOU NEED IT TO BE.
WE HAVE AN INCREDIBLY
SOPHISTICATED SYSTEM.
WE HAVE A HAIRDRYER
CONNECTED TO A THERMOSTAT
HERE, ON CONTINUOUS CYCLE.
Alda:
DESPITE THE SHOESTRING BUDGET
THE CAPTIVE-BREEDING PROGRAM
HAS RESULTED
IN SOME 800 ESPAÑOLA TORTOISES
BEING RETURNED
TO THEIR NATIVE ISLAND.
MAKING THIS POSSIBLE WAS AN
AMBITIOUS AND SUCCESSFUL PROGRAM
AIMED AT RIDDING
THE ISLAND OF GOATS
THE TORTOISES' MAIN
COMPETITOR FOR RESOURCES.
BUT MANY OF THE ISLANDS,
INCLUDING THE BIGGEST, ISABELA
REMAIN OVERRUN WITH GOATS
AS WELL AS PIGS.
THEIR ERADICATION IS
A PRINCIPAL GOAL
OF PEOPLE TRYING TO PRESERVE
THE ISLANDS' UNIQUE
BIOLOGICAL HERITAGE--
PEOPLE LIKE THE DARWIN RESEARCH
STATION'S HOWARD SNELL.
WE'RE COMING INTO ELIZABETH BAY
OFF THE COAST OF ISABELA
THE LARGEST ISLAND
IN THE GALAPAGOS
AND THESE ARE
THE MARIELAS ISLETS.
Alda:
BUT FOR SOME INTRODUCED SPECIES
ERADICATION IS
ALL BUT IMPOSSIBLE.
RATS, FOR INSTANCE,
HAVE BEEN IN THE GALAPAGOS
AS LONG AS SHIPS
HAVE VISITED HERE.
THEY APPEAR TO HAVE INVADED THE
MARIELAS ISLANDS ONLY RECENTLY
BUT NOW MAY BE THREATENING
ONE OF THE GALAPAGOS'S
MOST UNEXPECTED INHABITANTS.
Snell:
PENGUINS IN
THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS
ARE THE NORTHERNMOST PENGUINS
IN THE WORLD.
SO IT'S A UNIQUE
KIND OF PENGUIN.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY,
THE PENGUINS IN GALAPAGOS
AREN'T DOING PARTICULARLY WELL.
WHEN EL NIÑO EVENTS COME
INTO THE ARCHIPELAGO
WHICH HAPPENS EVERY SO OFTEN,
THE WATERS GET VERY, VERY WARM
AND THE NORMAL FISH LIFE
AROUND HERE BEGINS TO DIE OFF.
WHEN THAT HAPPENS,
PENGUIN POPULATIONS CRASH.
IN 1982-'83, THEY
CRASHED BY OVER 50%.
THIS LAST YEAR, '97-'98,
THEY CRASHED AGAIN.
AND THE THING THAT CONFUSES US
IS THEY DON'T RECUPERATE
AFTER THOSE CRASHES.
NOW, THAT WORRIES US,
BECAUSE, OF COURSE
IF THE POPULATIONS CRASH EVERY
SO OFTEN AND NEVER RECUPERATE
THEY CAN GO EXTINCT.
Alda:
HOWARD SUSPECTS RATS
ARE THE CULPRITS
INVADING THE ROCK CREVICES
WHERE PENGUINS LAY THEIR EGGS
AND RAISE THEIR CHICKS.
SO HE'S CONDUCTING AN EXPERIMENT
TO SEE WHAT CAN BE DONE
TO SAVE THE PENGUINS--
SHORT OF THE IMPOSSIBLE TASK
OF RIDDING THE GALAPAGOS
OF RATS ENTIRELY.
Snell:
NOW, WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO DO
IS USE THESE ISLANDS--
THESE SMALL ISLANDS-- AS MODELS
FOR THE REST OF THE GALAPAGOS.
AND WE'RE REMOVING THE RATS,
BY POISONING THEM
FROM SOME OF THE ISLANDS
AND LEAVING THEM ON OTHERS.
THE IDEA IS TO TRY AND MEASURE
HOW FEW RATS WE CAN REMOVE
TO INCREASE
PENGUIN REPRODUCTION.
THAT WAY WE CAN
INVEST ENOUGH MONEY
TO INCREASE PENGUIN REPRODUCTION
BUT NOT SO MUCH MONEY THAT
WE CAN'T DO OTHER THINGS ALSO.
IT'S REALLY ABOUT TRYING
TO DIVVY UP LIMITED RESOURCES
FOR THE CONSERVATION
OF THE BIOLOGY
OF THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS.
Alda:
THOSE RESOURCES MAY BECOME
A LITTLE LESS LIMITED
IN THE FUTURE, THANKS
TO THE LATEST ALIEN SPECIES
TO INVADE THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS:
ECO-TOURISTS, WHO COME
BY THE THOUSANDS EACH YEAR.
THESE TOURISTS BRING IN
MILLIONS OF DOLLARS
FOR THE TOUR OPERATORS
BUT UNTIL RECENTLY, LITTLE
OR NOTHING FOR THE WILDLIFE.
NOW THAT'S CHANGING.
Man:
THERE ARE ABOUT 60,000 PEOPLE
A YEAR WHO VISIT THE GALAPAGOS
AND I'M OF THE BELIEF
THAT THOSE 60,000 PEOPLE
CAN BE A MAJOR PART
OF THE FUTURE IN THESE ISLANDS
AND THAT COMPANIES
LIKE OURSELVES
WHO BENEFIT AND INDEED PROFIT
FROM BEING ABLE TO BRING
THESE VISITORS HERE
ARE IN THE POSITION
TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE.
AND IN THE LAST YEAR,
IN THE YEAR SINCE
WE'VE BEEN HERE
WE'VE RAISED ABOUT
$200,000 FROM OUR GUESTS
AND WHEN YOU THINK
THAT WE REPRESENT
FIVE PERCENT OF TOURISM
TO THESE ISLANDS
AND IF YOU MULTIPLY THIS KIND
OF AN ACTIVITY TIMES 20
ALL OF A SUDDEN, TOURISM COULD,
IN FACT, SUSTAIN PLACES
LIKE THE CHARLES DARWIN RESEARCH
STATION AND THE NATIONAL PARKS
AND THEY WOULDN'T HAVE
TO STRUGGLE SO MUCH FOR FUNDING.
Alda:
BUT THERE'S AN IRONY HERE.
TOURISTS BRING IN
NOT ONLY DOLLARS;
THEY'VE ALSO ATTRACTED THOUSANDS
OF ECUADORIANS TO THE ISLANDS
TO WORK IN THE TOURISM INDUSTRY.
TOGETHER, TOURISTS AND
RESIDENTS POSE A NEW THREAT
TO THE ISLANDS' ECOSYSTEM.
Snell:
BECAUSE THERE ARE 16,000
TO 20,000 PEOPLE
THAT LIVE IN
THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS
FIVE SUPPLY SHIPS RUN OUT HERE
TWO OR THREE TIMES A MONTH EACH
AND THERE ARE THREE 727s A DAY
THAT FLY INTO
THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS.
ALL OF THAT ACTIVITY BRINGS IN
A TREMENDOUS AMOUNT OF MATERIAL.
TONS AND TONS AND TONS OF FOOD
AND CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL
COME TO THE GALAPAGOS
EVERY YEAR.
SOMEWHERE IN THOSE PACKAGES
ARE THE INTRODUCED SPECIES
OF TOMORROW.
IT'S NOT PURPOSEFUL NOWADAYS
BUT IT'S EVERY BIT
AS DAMAGING AS IF IT WAS.
Alda:
I'VE COME TO SEE FOR MYSELF
ONE OF THE WORST
OF THESE ALIEN INVADERS.
CHARLOTTE CAUSTON
OF THE DARWIN RESEARCH STATION
IS SHOWING THE WAY.
WHAT ARE ALL THESE
LITTLE WHITE THINGS?
OKAY, THESE
ARE THE COTTONY
CUSHION SCALE.
IT'S AN INTRODUCED
SCALE INSECT
THAT WAS INTRODUCED
IN 1982
INTO THE ISLAND
OF SAN CRISTOBAL
AND HAS SINCE
THEN SPREAD
TO NINE OTHER ISLANDS
IN THE ARCHIPELAGO
AND ATTACKS OVER
40 PLANT SPECIES.
HMM...
IN THE ABSENCE OF
ITS NATURAL ENEMIES
IT'S JUST GONE HAYWIRE.
HOW WAS IT INTRODUCED?
WE'RE NOT SURE.
WE THINK IT WAS INTRODUCED
IN SOME ACACIA TREES THAT
WERE IMPORTED TO THE ISLANDS
BUT THEN AGAIN, IT COULD
HAVE BEEN SOME CITRUS.
AND IT WAS DEFINITELY ON A PLANT
AND ACCIDENTALLY INTRODUCED.
NO ONE BROUGHT IT IN ON PURPOSE.
Alda:
THE COTTONY CUSHION SCALE IS ONE
OF HUNDREDS OF NONNATIVE INSECTS
THAT HAVE RECENTLY SNEAKED
INTO THE ISLANDS
AND CHARLOTTE IS ONE
OF ONLY TWO ENTOMOLOGISTS.
IF YOU HAVE TO GO AFTER THEM
SPECIES BY SPECIES
FIND OUT WHAT THEY DO,
WHAT HARM THEY CAUSE
AND THEN HOW YOU CAN
PROTECT AGAINST THEM--
AND BY THE TIME YOU FIND
THAT OUT ABOUT ONE SPECIES
YOU'VE PROBABLY GOT
ANOTHER 300 ON YOUR LIST.
THAT'S RIGHT.
HOW DOES THAT
MAKE YOU FEEL?
IT'S DAUNTING, THE PROSPECT.
THE MAGNITUDE OF THE PROBLEMS
THAT FACE THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS
CAN APPEAR OVERWHELMING, AND
IN FACT, THEY ARE OVERWHELMING
BUT THE ONE THING THAT
PEOPLE THAT ARE MOTIVATED
TO CONSERVE BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY
IN THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS
KEEP AT THE FOREFRONT ALL OF
THE TIME IS THAT THIS IS REALLY
ONE OF THE LAST OCEANIC
ARCHIPELAGOS IN THE WORLD
WHERE WE HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO
MAINTAIN A PRISTINE ENVIRONMENT.
THERE ARE... 95% TO 96% OF
THE SPECIES THAT EVER OCCURRED
IN THE GALAPAGOS ISLANDS
ARE ALIVE TODAY.
SOME OF THEM ARE IN A BAD STATE.
SOME OF THEM MAY GO EXTINCT
BEFORE TOO LONG
IF WE'RE NOT SUCCESSFUL
AT RESTORATION EFFORTS FOR THEM.
BUT THE POINT IS, WE HAVE
AN OPPORTUNITY HERE.
THE WORLD, ACTUALLY--
IT'S NOT JUST ECUADOR;
IT'S NOT JUST
THE RESEARCH STATION;
THE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE
BUT THE WORLD HAS AN OPPORTUNITY
TO PRESERVE BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY
IN A PRISTINE STATE.
NOW, NOW, WHAT
ABOUT THIS?
WHY SHOULD ANYBODY ELSE,
WHO'S NOT A SCIENTIST, CARE
ABOUT PRESERVING THE GALAPAGOS?
IF THE GALAPAGOS
DISAPPEARS AS
A UNIQUE PLACE--
IT'S RUN OVER BY
INTRODUCED SPECIES--
SO WHAT?
THERE'S A GENETIC... A BANK
OF GENETIC INFORMATION
AND IT CAN BE SQUANDERED
OR IT CAN BE PRESERVED
IN ITS CURRENT STATE.
THE ANALOGY IS OFTEN
MADE WITH A LIBRARY--
THAT YOU WOULDN'T
GO INTO A LIBRARY
AND WANTONLY DESTROY
A WHOLE BUNCH OF STUFF
TO MAKE SHELF ROOM, YOU KNOW,
TO PUT KNICKKNACKS ON.
WELL, HERE,
WE'VE GOT CREATURES
THAT HAVE BEEN COMING UP
WITH SOLUTIONS
TO PARTICULAR PROBLEMS
FOR A LONG, LONG TIME
AND THERE'LL BE
PROBLEMS IN THE FUTURE
THAT WILL NEED SOME
OF THOSE SOLUTIONS.
THEY'RE HERE;
WE SHOULD PRESERVE THEM.
I THINK IT'S ALSO A PLACE OF JOY
AND INSIGHT
INTO NATURAL PROCESSES
AND YOU CAN'T REALLY PREDICT
WHAT PEOPLE WILL FIND HERE
IN THE FUTURE.
BUT LIKE, DARWIN WAS INSPIRED
BY THIS LABORATORY OF EVOLUTION
AND I THINK MANY PEOPLE
WILL IN THE FUTURE.
AND YOU CAME BECAUSE
YOU FIND IT INTERESTING.
SO I THINK IT REALLY
WILL CONTINUE
TO BE A LAB OF EVOLUTION
WHERE YOU CAN REALLY SEE
THESE PROCESSES HAPPENING.
THIS OTHER GUY
WENT UNDER.
THERE HE GOES!
OH, THERE
HE GOES.
GREAT, BRAVO.
Alda:
IT WAS LATE ONE AFTERNOON
AFTER LYNN AND I HAD
BEEN OUT SNORKELING
THAT THE MAGIC
OF THE GALAPAGOS--
ITS ABILITY, AS MARTIN SAID
TO PROVIDE JOY AND INSIGHT--
CRYSTALLIZED FOR ME.
HERE WE WERE ON THE EQUATOR,
TALKING TO PENGUINS
WHOSE ANCESTORS CAME
FROM THE ANTARCTIC.
IN SPITE OF THE WAVES
AND THE RAZOR-SHARP ROCKS
WE WERE MESMERIZED.
Fowler:
WALKER IN FRONT.
AREN'T THEY CUTE
HOW THEY WALK?
HE'S GOING TO GO BACK
FOR SOME FISH.
HE'S HUNGRY.
YOU KNOW, TO GET
THAT CLOSE TO
PENGUINS, AND...
IT'S AN EXPERIENCE
I'VE NEVER HAD BEFORE
AND IT'S REALLY
A SENSATIONAL EXPERIENCE
BUT YOU'RE OUT
HERE ALL THE TIME.
WHAT'S IT LIKE
FOR YOU?
THAT'S WHAT I SAID
THE OTHER DAY
WHEN YOU ASKED ME
WHY I WAS STILL HERE
AFTER 20 YEARS--
IT'S INCREDIBLE,
ISN'T IT?
SOMETHING HAPPENS
DIFFERENT EVERY SINGLE DAY.
YOU NEVER GET TIRED
OF THESE ISLANDS.
Alda:
CHARLES DARWIN SPENT JUST
FIVE WEEKS IN THE GALAPAGOS
AMAZED, AS IS EVERY VISITOR
BY THE TAMENESS OF THE ANIMALS
AND BIRDS, AND BY A SENSE
OF BEING IN A WORLD APART,
IN TIME AND IN SPACE.
BUT WHAT STAYED IN HIS MIND
LIKE A SLOW-BURNING FUSE
WAS THE SAME CREATURE OR PLANT
TURNING UP IN DIFFERENT FORMS
EVEN DIFFERENT SPECIES,
ON DIFFERENT ISLANDS--
A CIRCUMSTANCE, HE WROTE
IN THE VOYAGE OF THE BEAGLE
"THAT STRIKES ME WITH WONDER":
"IT IS THE FATE OF MOST VOYAGERS
"NO SOONER TO DISCOVER WHAT IS
MOST INTERESTING IN ANY LOCALITY
"THAN THEY ARE HURRIED FROM IT;
"BUT I OUGHT PERHAPS
TO BE THANKFUL
"THAT I OBTAINED SUFFICIENT
MATERIALS TO ESTABLISH
"THIS MOST REMARKABLE FACT
"IN THE DISTRIBUTION
OF ORGANIC BEINGS.
"REVIEWING THE FACTS HERE GIVEN,
ONE IS ASTONISHED AT THE AMOUNT
"OF CREATIVE FORCE, IF SUCH
AN EXPRESSION MAY BE USED
DISPLAYED ON THESE SMALL,
BARREN AND ROCKY ISLANDS."
SOME 20 YEARS LATER
HE IDENTIFIED HIS "CREATIVE
FORCE" AS NATURAL SELECTION
AND THE WORLD CHANGED FOREVER.
COME VISIT US ONLINE.
SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN FRONTIERS
CAN BE FOUND
ON THE WORLD WIDE WEB
AT THE ADDRESS ON YOUR SCREEN.
KISMET HERE IS VERY HAPPY
TO BE JOINING
A WHOLE LOT OF OTHER ROBOTS
WHOSE DESIGN IS INSPIRED
BY LIVING THINGS.
( banging snare drum )
I'M ALAN ALDA.
JOIN KISMET AND ME AS SCIENTIFIC
AMERICAN FRONTIERS VENTURES OUT
TO MEET A WHOLE NEW GENERATION
OF NATURAL-BORN ROBOTS.
BROUGHT TO YOU BY A COMPANY
§§§
THESE ELEMENTS OF COMMUNICATION
ARE BROUGHT TO YOU BY VERIZON.
CORPORATE SPONSOR OF
SCIENTIFIC AMERICAN FRONTIERS.
[Captions copyright
Chedd Angier]
BE SURE TO SPECIFY
WHICH EPISODE YOU'D LIKE.